<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <title>NeHe-EPUB-02</title>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/prism.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <script src="../js/prism.js"></script>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2>Tutorial 2 - Your First Polygon</h2>
<p>In the this first tutorial, we'll include all the source code.  In subsequent tutorials we'll include only the
    sections that are new.</p>
<pre><code class="language-html">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
    &lt;!-- The previous line tells the browser that the page uses the HTML5 standard. --&gt;
    &lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"&gt;
    &lt;head&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;Three.js tutorial - Lesson 02&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/&gt;

        &lt;!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport
        sizeto the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. --&gt;
        &lt;meta name="viewport" content="width="width=768,height=1024"/&gt;
        &lt;style type="text/css"&gt;</code><code class="language-css">
            body {
            /* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
            background-color: #000000;

            /* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
            overflow: hidden;
            }</code>
         <code class="language-html">
        &lt;/style&gt;
        &lt;!-- Include two libraries
        1. Three.js (core library)
        2. Detector.js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) --&gt;
        &lt;script src="../js/three.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
        &lt;script src="../js/Detector.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
     &lt;/head&gt;
    &lt;body id="page"&gt;
    &lt;!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable 
      later on, the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. --&gt;
        &lt;div id="WebGLCanvas"&gt;

    &lt;!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.js commands --&gt;
    &lt;script&gt;</code><code class="language-javascript">
    // Globals
    var scene;
    var camera;
    var canvasWidth = 768;
    var canvasHeight = 1024;

    // Initialize the scene
    initializeScene();

    // Render the scene (map the 3D world to the 2D scene)
    renderScene();

    /**
     * Initialize the scene.
     */
    function initializeScene(){
        // Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware
        // accelerated WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The
        // canvas renderer uses antialiasing by default.
        // The approach of multiple renderers is quite nice, because your scene can
        // also be viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of
        // the canvas renderer in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in
        // the tutorials, when there is a difference.
        if(Detector.webgl){
            renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});

        // If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL
        // browsers
        } else {
        renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
    }

    // Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
    renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

    // Set the renderers size to the content areas size
    renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

    // Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
    // object to it
    document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

    // Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
    // geometries, ...)
    scene = new THREE.Scene();

    // Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
    // Three.js offers three camera types:
    //  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
    //  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
    //  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
    //    during runtime)
    // In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
    // camera are ...
    // ... field of view (FOV),
    // ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
    // ... near and
    // ... far.
    // Near and far define the clipping planes of the view frustum. Three.js provides an
    // example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/canvas_camera_orthographic2.html),
    // which allows to play around with these parameters.
    // The camera is moved 10 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
    // the scene.
    // After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
    camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
    camera.position.set(0, 0, 10);
    camera.lookAt(scene.position);
    scene.add(camera);
    // Create the triangle (or any arbitrary geometry).
    // 1. Instantiate the geometry object
    // 2. Add the vertices
    // 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
    var triangleGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
    triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 0.0,  1.0, 0.0));
    triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
    triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
    triangleGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));

    // To color the surface, a material has to be created. If all faces have the same color,
    // the THREE.MeshBasicMaterial fits our needs. It offers a lot of attributes (see
    // https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/src/materials/MeshBasicMaterial.js)
    // from which we need in this lesson only 'color'.

    // Create a white basic material and activate the 'doubleSided' attribute to force the
    // rendering of both sides of each face (front and back). This prevents the so called
    // 'backface culling'. Usually, only the side is rendered, whose normal vector points
    // towards the camera. The other side is not rendered (backface culling). But this
    // performance optimization sometimes leads to wholes in the surface. When this happens
    // in your surface, simply set 'doubleSided' to 'true'.
    var triangleMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
    color:0xFFFFFF,
    side:THREE.DoubleSide
    });

    // Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
    // by -1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis. Finally add the mesh to the scene.
    var triangleMesh = new THREE.Mesh(triangleGeometry, triangleMaterial);
    triangleMesh.position.set(-1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
    scene.add(triangleMesh);

    // The creation of the square is done in the same way as the triangle, except of the
    // face definition. Instead of using THREE.Face3, we define a face with four vertices:
    // THREE.Face4.
    // 1. Instantiate the geometry object
    // 2. Add the vertices
    // 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
    var squareGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
    squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
    squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
    squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
    squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
    squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));
    squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 2, 3));

    // Create a white basic material and activate the 'doubleSided' attribute.
    var squareMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
    color:0xFFFFFF,
    side:THREE.DoubleSide
    });

    // Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
    // by 1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis and add the mesh to the scene.
    var squareMesh = new THREE.Mesh(squareGeometry, squareMaterial);
    squareMesh.position.set(1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
    scene.add(squareMesh);
    }

    /**
    * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
    */
    function renderScene(){
    renderer.render(scene, camera);
    }</code><code class="language-html">
    &lt;/script&gt;
    &lt;/div&gt;
    &lt;/body&gt;
    &lt;/html&gt;</code>
</pre>

</body>
</html>